Spring Expression Language, or SpEL as it's often abbreviated,
is a powerful expression language from the Spring Framework.
From my experience, it's typically used in libraries,
but it can also be used to do some convenient changes to your code.
Using it, you can manipulate the object graph.
This simply means that once an object is created,
you can use the expression language to manipulate that object.
You can also use it to evaluate values at runtime and change
the behavior of your code accordingly.
It can also be used to evaluate and manipulate your configuration.
Let's look at how we can inject some values at runtime into our application.
Without building a more complex application,
let's add a seed value to our model object.
I'm going to open up our Speaker.
And a lot of times as we are doing security and other things like that,
we'll have values that get seeded at runtime.
I'm going to add a private double, and I'll call this the seedNum.
And then I'm going to come down below and just generate
some getters and setters for this object.
So I'll right-click, say Generate, and we'll do the Getter and Setter.
Click OK and save this code.
And now I want to go up to my
HibernateSpeakerRepositoryImpl where I create this.
And inside of here,
I'm going to actually use the Spring Expression Language to grab
a value out of the java.lang .Math library.
So I'm going to type in here the annotation @Value,
and inside of here, I want to do the pound sign,
the open curly brace, and say T( java.lang .Math ),
and I'm basically grabbing the math object here and
saying .random for a random number, and this gives me a very small decimal,
so I'm going to times that by 100, and then close that curly brace off.
And now I want to go ahead and put that in an object,
so I'm going to say private double seedNum and save that.
And now I can, at compilation time,
take that value that's added at runtime and inject it into my code.
So, I'm going to go ahead and say speaker.setSeedNum,
and I'll pass in seedNum and save this.
So now this object's been initialized on line 19,
and we can store that value inside of our speaker object.
And a use case for this is, like I mentioned before,
when you're doing security and you create passwords,
a lot of times those are salted or seeded with a value that you pass in,
and they'll often times use a calendar day or some random number,
so that's what we're going to do here.
We'll save this, open up my Application to run this,
and I'm just going to grab this line.
And since we're getting a lot of stuff in here,
I'm going to comment out these two System.out .printlns.
In fact,
I'll even comment out this SpeakerService where I'm getting the second instance,
and we'll do getSeedNum here.
And let's run our application and see what it generates.
Now that we've got everything compiled,
you can see here where we've still used our no arguments constructor.
We have our post construct in there.
We have our name and our calendar instance that we're grabbing
from up above and the value of our seeded values.
We have 94.888, and it continues on.
That's a seeded value that we passed into our application,
using the Spring Expression Language.
So a very powerful way to grab a random number,
and you can do a lot of stuff with this.
We can manipulate stuff out of a list or pull specific things,
we can evaluate something to false or true at a runtime value,
but just as a basic example of how easy it is to get this inside of your application using this expression language.